marson parulian
marson.parulian@gmail.com
+61 424 917 401
Summary https://marsonparulian.github.io
I am currently focusing on web-JS and backend related technologies. 
e.g.: Typescript MongoDB, Express, GraphQL, React, Node.js, AWS 
stack, and Docker.
I quitted working in 2017 due to eye problem. Since 2020 I learned to 
use screen reader, so I can code without seeing the screen. Currently 
~95% of time I code with screen reader (Demos are listed in link 
above).
In the past projects I had used various technologies such as: PHP 
frameworks, MySQL, and Java.
I have knowledge and practical skill (screen reader user) to develop an 
accessible web application. I completed a short online course titled 
"Introduction to Web Accessibility" in Dec 2020 - Jan 2021.
Career history Full Stack Developer at Hive Empire (Finder.com.au)
Jun 2016 - Feb 2017 (8 months)
- Enhance and fix bugs on the existed system on backend (PHP 
WordPress) and frontend (Vanilla JS, HTML, CSS).
- Developed additional WordPress page (PHP, MySQL, HTML, and 
CSS).
- Developed frontend (React JS & HTML) part of a credit score 
application embedded in the WordPress system.
Systems Architect at ASEAN Foundation (Indonesia) & 
SEACON (Malaysia)
Feb 2013 - Apr 2014 (1 year 1 month)
Both organizations, started a joint project named SAFSEN (Southeast 
Asia Network on Technology for Sustainable Agriculture, Food & 
Nutrition). One of the project goal was to develop a web-based
cultivation techniques and technologies database to allow farmers, 
practitioners, and scholars sharing existing and latest practice.Created with SEEK Profile
The database was built using CakePHP, MySQL, Twitter Bootstrap, 
JQuery, JQuery UI, HTML5, CSS3, and Apache.
Role: System Architect & Programmer
Responsibilities: Conduct system needs assessment, design system 
requirement and features, design user interface, and develop the 
system. Report to project manager, coordinating with Web 
Administrator, and manage System Tester.
ICT Specialist at JHPIEGO Indonesia
Jun 2012 - Jan 2013 (7 months)
I worked for EMAS project, an USAID funded project joint with 
JHPIEGO, aiming on minimizing number of deaths during prenatal and 
postpartum period in 6 provinces in Indonesia. One of the outputs of 
EMAS project was to develop a SMS based learning system for 
midwives in remote areas, named Learning & Performance 
Reinforcement System (LPR).
LPR has 2 sub-systems: SMS service & system management (web). 
Both systems communicate via Web Service (REST).
The SMS service is built using Java, SMSLib, Jetty, JPA (EclipseLink), 
and iTegno GPRS modem. System management was built using 
HTML5, CSS3, and JQuery. Yii (PHP framework) & MySQL, deployed 
on Apache.
Role: ICT Specialist
Responsibilities: Design the system architecture based on system 
requirement defined by ICT Advisor. Develop and test both systems 
features.
Web Developer at ASEAN Foundation (AF)
Jul 2011 - Jan 2012 (6 months)
ASEAN Foundation is one of Southeast Asian Nations bodies, focusing 
on social development and building awareness of ASEAN. AF, funded 
by Japan
ASEAN Solidarity Fund, initiated a project for early detections and 
report system of Avian Influenza, named
Communication and Information System for the Control of Avian 
Influenza (CISCAI).Created with SEEK Profile
The web based system used custom Joomla components, including 
GIS application (MapServer, OpenLayers, and OpenStreetMap).
Role: Web Programmer
Responsibility: Coordinate with System Administrator for bug fixing and 
minor web features development.
Trainer at Perdhaki Foundation
Jan 2011 - Jan 2011 (1 month or less)
PERDHAKI is a Catholic agency in Indonesia focusing on healthcare 
issues. Perdhaki held Hospital Information System training series for IT 
staff from 13 hospitals in Indonesia.
Ten days Web development training for IT hospital staff. Consist of web 
basic concepts, HTML & CSS, web request & response mechanism, 
PHP (MVC concept) development, and simple CRUD operations to 
MySQL.
Role: PHP & Web Trainer
Web Developer at PT. Mitra Solusi Telematika (MST)
Jan 2008 - Aug 2009 (1 year 7 months)
MST is a Subsidiary of Tiara Marga Trakindo group (Indonesia), 
focusing on IT services & solution including custom system
development. MST held responsible for IT services & solution of all 10 
subsidiary companies and other clients.
Role: Web Programmer
Part of custom development team. Responsible on developing webbased system depending on the need of projects.
Projects involved:
❖ Property Management System
Web based property leasing management system, include processes 
from LoI - LoU - LoA. Built using PHP,
Apache, MySQL, and JQuery. A custom full AJAX based with MVC 
concept applied.Created with SEEK Profile
Part of a team of 1 system analyst and 4 programmers. Responsible for
developing and maintaining the base
architecture of custom framework and libraries.
❖ Advanced Sales Incentive System
A web-based application to maintain and calculate the amount of each 
salesperson's incentive of PT. Tigaraksa Satria (Indonesian company). 
The application was built using PHP, ZendCore Apache, Oracle 
database (oci8 connector), and Javascript.
Part of a team consist of 1 system analyst and 3 programmers. 
Responsible for developing modules.
❖ Trade Fund Management System
Fund transfer application between PT. Tigaraksa Satria (main 
distributor), product principles, and nodes of distribution chain. The 
application was built using PHP, ZendCore Apache, Oracle, and PHP.
Part of a team consist of 1 system analyst and 3 programmers. 
Responsible for developing modules.
Field Inspector at A Construction management
Oct 2008 - Dec 2008 (2 months)
company, involved in construction of Presidential Command and 
Control Centre (later
known as Situation Room) in Jakarta, Indonesia.
Role: Field Inspector
Inspected installation of network of computers and the development of 
custom application.
Programmer at Wisesa Consulting
Sep 2007 - Nov 2007 (2 months)
IT solution company.
Part of 3 members team developing custom application that handles 
inventory, purchase, and delivery operations.Created with SEEK Profile
The application was built using J2EE technology with Swing, Hibernate, 
PostgreSQL, and Jasper Report.
Role: UI Programmer (Java)
Developed XML based (Swing) user interface.
Skills HTML5, JQuery, Node.JS, Express.JS, Mongo Db, React Redux, 
React.JS, Web Application Testing, Selenium Automation, Docker, 
MySQL, Amazon Web Services, Typescript Programming Language, 
JavaScript Programming Language, Application Programming 
Interface, Graphql, Jest, Apollo server
Languages Bahasa Indonesia
Education Bachelor of Agricultural Engineering from Bogor Agricultural 
University
Finished 2003
 